WHAT 
MOBILE  FOOD VENDORS  
SHOULD KNOW
This guide will help you operate your mobile food vending 
unit (pushcart or motor vehicle, including trucks) 
safely and legally. Keep your staff and customers safe 
from foodborne illness and avoid common violations.
Call NYC Health Department at 212-676-1600 for more information.
Table of Contents
I. Introduction....................................................................................................1
II.  Inspections.....................................................................................................1
III.   Notice of Violation (Summons)..........................................................................1
IV.  What You Should Know about Your Permit, Decal and License..................2
 Who is allowed to vend?...........................................................................3 
 What does the permit holder have to do?................................................3
V.  Equipment and Size Requirements for Your Mobile Food Vending Unit........6
VI. Service and Storage Facilities......................................................................13
VII. Daily Practice: Traveling to Your Vending Location..................................19
VIII. Daily Practice: Choosing and Setting Up Your Vending Operation............20
IX. How to Safely Prepare, Hold and Serve Food............................................24
X. Shutting Down Your Vending Operation for the Day.....................................30
To find this guide in other languages, visit nyc.gov/health/mobilefoodvending. 
Please note that this guide applies to mobile food vendors in New York 
City. We value your input and want this to be a useful resource. If you 
have any questions or feedback, please contact 212-676-1600 or email 
mfvinspections@health.nyc.gov.
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW   1
I. Introduction
It’s important to follow all regulations and laws when operating your  
mobile food vending unit. The Health Code and Administrative Code  
outline everything the Health Department requires—from food safety 
requirements to unit placement—to make sure that your mobile food  
vending unit operates safely. 
This guide offers the basics. For more details, consult the Mobile Food 
Vendor’s Orange Book, which contains Health Code Article 81, “Food  
Safety,” and Rules of the City of New York Chapter 6, “Food Units.”
II. Inspections
The Health Department is required to inspect mobile food vending units  
at least once a year to make sure they are complying with the law. Inspections 
are also conducted:
 • For permit renewal
 • In response to complaints or other reports of violations
 •  To follow up on an order issued by the Health Commissioner to correct  
a violation
At the end of the inspection, the inspector will give the mobile food vendor 
an electronic report of any violations. All violations must be corrected 
immediately. This report is also mailed to the permit holder. 
III. Notice of Violation (Summons)
If you have violations, you may receive a Notice of Violation (NOV), which:
 •  Notifies the permit holder of the opportunity to attend a hearing at the 
Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings (Environmental Control 
Board Hearings Division) and gives the date, time and location of the 
hearing
 • Provides information on how to respond to the NOV
 •  Informs the permit holder that he or she may submit evidence to 
challenge the Health Department’s findings, provide a defense and/
or show compliance
2   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW
IV. What Y ou Should Know about Y our 
Permit, Decal and License
•   Licenses, permits and decals cannot be sold, rented or given to  
another person.
•  Vendors must always carry a current permit “paper.” (You may not 
be able to renew your permit if you owe fines.)
•  To sell food, a mobile food vending unit must have a current decal 
on it.
•  To sell food, a mobile food vendor must have a current mobile 
food vending license.
•  Vendors must wear their license so it can be seen by the public  
at all times.
AA 00001
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    3
WHO IS ALLOWED TO VEND?
•  Only vendors who are licensed and authorized by the permit holder 
may sell food or drinks. The permit holder must submit a notarized 
"Mobile Food Vending Unit Permit Holder: Authorized Vendor List" 
form to the Health Department.
WHAT DOES THE PERMIT HOLDER HAVE TO DO?
•  Permit holders must responsibly operate and supervise their food 
vending unit at all times.
•  Permit holders are responsible for any violations, regardless of who 
is vending.
•  Permit holders are responsible for paying any fines. All mobile food 
vending violations will be given to the permit holder.
 FOOD VENDOR
4   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW
NYC ISSUES  6 DIFFERENT TYPES OF MOBILE FOOD 
VENDING PERMITS. THESE PERMITS HAVE DIFFERENT 
REGULATIONS: 
CITYWIDE PERMIT
Vending allowed
 • On public streets
 • In every borough 
 • Year round
Permit holder must renew the permit every two years
2,900 permits in total
 •  100 permits are set aside for people who  
are veterans, disabled or disabled veterans.
4089C
TEMPORARY (SEASONAL) PERMIT 
Vending allowed
 • On public streets
 • In every borough 
 • From April 1 to October 31
Permit holder must renew the permit every year
1,000 permits in total
4089C
BOROUGH- SPECIFIC PERMIT
Vending allowed
 • On public streets
 • In the Bronx, Brooklyn, Queens or Staten Island
 • Year round
Permit holder must renew the permit every two years
200 permits in total (50 for each borough) 
4089C
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    5
FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLES (Green Cart) Permit 
Vending allowed
 • For whole fresh fruits and vegetables only 
 • On public streets
 •  In every borough but limited to designated  
police precincts
 • Year round
Permit holder must renew the permit every two years
1,000 permits in total
4089C
RESTRICTED AREA PERMIT 
Vending allowed
 •  On private property; requires a lease  
agreement from the private-property owner
Renewed for two years or less,  
depending on the lease agreement
No limit on the number of permits
4089C
SPECIALIZED VENDOR PERMIT  
(see State General Business Law 35A)*
Vending allowed
 • Along the perimeter of NYC Parks property
 • Year round
Specialized vendor license required;  
only disabled veterans eligible
No limit on the number of permits
4089C
*  Find out more about Specialized Vendor permits online at  
nyc.gov/health/mobilefood.
6   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW
EQUIPMENT NEEDED FOR DIFFERENT  
TYPES OF FOOD PREPARATION:
V. Equipment and Size 
Requirements for Y our 
Mobile Food Vending Unit
For fried or grilled sausages, poultry, fish, shish kebabs, hamburgers, 
eggs and gyros: 
   Potable water (water  
that is safe to drink)
   Sinks for washing food  
and cooking tools
  Hand wash sink
  Wastewater tank
   Overhead structure (e.g., 
overhang or umbrella)
  Ventilation 
  Cold holding
  Hot holding
  Thermometers
Prepackaged frozen desserts, prepackaged sandwiches, and 
prepackaged and presliced fruit and vegetables:
  Wastewater tank
  Overhead structure (e.g., 
overhang or umbrella)
  Cold holding
  Hot holding
  Thermometers
When your mobile food vending unit was 
issued its decal, it met the below requirements 
to safely operate and serve food. 
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    7
REMEMBER: Vendors may not change their 
unit after the pre-permit inspection (e.g., 
the size, adding accessories, etc.). If you 
make a change to your unit, you must be 
reinspected immediately. 
Sandwiches, raw fruits, vegetable salads, breads, bagels or 
rolls buttered or topped with cream cheese, smoothies and 
soft-serve ice cream:
   Potable water (water  
that is safe to drink)
   Sinks for washing food  
and cooking tools
  Hand wash sink
  Wastewater tank
   Overhead structure (e.g., 
overhang or umbrella)
  Ventilation 
  Cold holding
  Hot holding
  Thermometers
Brewed coffee or tea, donuts, pastries, bagels or rolls buttered 
or topped with cream cheese, popcorn, cotton candy, plain or 
candied nuts, soft pretzels and chestnuts
   Potable water (water  
that is safe to drink)
  Wastewater tank
   Overhead structure (e.g., 
overhang or umbrella)
  Ventilation 
Boiled frankfurters or sausages and knishes:
   Potable water (water  
that is safe to drink)
  Wastewater tank
  Ventilation
  Thermometers
   Overhead structure (e.g., 
overhang or umbrella)
   Cold holding
  Hot holding
8   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW
GLOSSARY:
Cold Holding – Mechanical refrigeration equipment used to keep foods being stored 
or held for service at or below 41 degrees F. Some mobile food units with limited food 
items and little to no food preparation or cooking, such as hot dog and Italian ice carts 
may use ice for keeping foods and drinks cold instead. Melting ice must be drained to 
reduce the potential for contamination.
Culinary (Food Preparation) Sink – A sink used only for preparing food.
Hand Wash Sink – A sink used only for washing your hands. You may not use this sink 
for cleaning utensils or preparing food.
Hot Holding – Equipment used to keep foods being stored or held for service at or 
above 140 degrees F. Hot-holding equipment includes steam tables or food warmers. 
Cooking equipment such as a grill or oven is not hot-holding equipment.
Overhead Structure – A structure such as an overhang, roof, canopy, umbrella or 
similar device that protects the food and equipment on the mobile food vending unit 
from contamination.
Potable Water – Water that is safe to drink. Mobile food vending units that prepare 
food are required to have potable water for washing hands and cleaning food and 
cooking tools. Units that do not prepare food, such as fruit and vegetable carts, do 
not require potable water.
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    9
Thermometers – Equipment that measures the temperature of the food and the 
cold-and hot-holding equipment, including thermometers and thermocouples. 
Thermometers used for food must be able to measure the temperature ranges for 
the types of foods prepared and served on the mobile food unit. Thermometers must 
be used in cold-holding units and be placed in the warmest part of cold holding to 
measure the temperature. Thermometers used to measure the temperature of food 
in hot-holding equipment must be placed to measure the temperature in the coolest 
part of such equipment.
Three-Compartment Sink – A sink with at least three basins to wash, rinse and sanitize 
your cooking tools. You may clean food in this sink also.
Ventilation – Mechanical equipment, usually a hood with an electric fan and removable 
grease filters, used to prevent grease, steam, smoke, odors and fumes from collecting 
inside, outside or on the mobile food vending unit and contaminating food or causing 
a nuisance.
Wastewater Tank – A metal or plastic tank for storing wastewater from your food 
operation. The tank must be durable, corrosion resistant and nonabsorbent, with a 
smooth and easily cleanable surface. It must have 15 percent more capacity than 
the drinking water supply tanks: at least an 11.5 gallon tank for carts and at least a 
46-gallon tank for trucks.
Water Supply Tank – A tank for storing drinking water for your mobile food unit. The 
tank must be made of metal, food-grade plastic or other materials that are durable, 
corrosion resistant and nonabsorbent. It must have a smooth and easily cleanable 
surface. Carts that require drinking water must have at least a 10-gallon tank and 
trucks must have at least a 40-gallon tank.
10   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR YOUR MOBILE 
FOOD VENDING UNIT:
Mobile food vending units, including sidewalk trailers and pushcarts, may 
not be larger than 5 feet wide and 10 feet long (5'X 10'). This includes 
all pushcart attachments and overhead structures.
If you prepare food on a pushcart, you must have:
 • A tank for drinking water that holds at least 10 gallons.
 •  A wastewater tank that holds 15 percent more liquid than the 
drinking water tank (for example, at least 11.5 gallons for a 10 gallon 
drinking water tank) to store dirty water.
20 LB x 2
5 FT
10 FT
Water Tank
Waste Tank
10 GAL
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    11
If you prepare food on a truck, you must have: 
 • A tank for drinking water that holds at least 40 gallons.
 •  A wastewater tank that holds 15 percent more liquid than the 
drinking water tank (for example, at least 46 gallons for a 40 gallon 
drinking water tank) to store dirty water.
 • A partition between the cab and the food preperation area.
If you prepare food on your unit, you may have two propane tanks  
that weigh up to 100 pounds each for trucks and up to 20 pounds each  
for pushcarts. 
40 GAL
Water Tank
46 GAL
CAPACITY
Waste Tank
100 LB x 2
12   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
Ice cream trucks must have a signage arm (a stop sign that swings out) 
and warning beepers.
NOTE:  Mobile food vending trucks are subject to 
New York State motor vehicle laws. Please check 
with New York State for details on approved sizes 
for vehicles online at https://dmv.ny.gov/ or by 
phone at 518-473-5595
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    13
VI. Service and Storage Facilities
COMMISSARIES:
Commissaries are places where you store, set up and clean your 
unit. Commissaries must have a permit from the New York City  
Health Department.
All commissaries should provide the following:
Cleaning and sanitizing equipment,  
including sinks
Potable water (water that is safe to drink)
Storage space for vending units 
Equipment for the disposal of liquid and  
solid waste 
COMMISSARY
14   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
Daily logs 
Commissaries, and other approved facilities, must 
keep daily records of vendor use. These records 
must identify vending units by permit or decal 
number. Records must include the date and time 
the facilities were used and for what purpose.
Separate and enclosed areas for washing mobile 
food vending units
Food preparation areas and supplies 
Food storage equipment
Propane storage space approved by the New 
York City Fire Department (FDNY)
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    15
WHAT YOU SHOULD DO AT YOUR COMMISSARY:
•  You must store your food vending unit at a commissary, depot or 
alternate approved facility, not at home. The only exceptions are Green 
Carts and units that sell only prepackaged foods.
•  You must clean and service your food vending unit at least once every 
day. This must be done at the commissary or at another place approved 
by the Health Department.
•  You must prepare your food at a commissary using the commissary’s 
food preparation facilities. All foods, including ice, must be purchased 
from sources that comply with federal, State and City laws. You must 
also buy already-prepared foods at the commissary to sell on your unit.
Remember: Only prepare food that your permit allows.
HOME
COMMISSARY
16   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
 Before leaving the commissary for vending 
remember to:
Completely fill your fresh water tank  
for food prep, hand washing and  
utensil washing.
Store enough ice to keep all food cold, 
if mechanical refrigeration is not allowed  
on your food vending unit.
Store enough soap and paper towels  
for your hand wash sink.
Store enough clean utensils for the day 
unless you have sinks to clean them on 
your unit.
SOAP
Empty your liquid waste tank. Get your propane.
WASTE 
TANK
WATER 
TANK
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    17
Depots are only for storing your mobile food vending unit. They are usually 
a garage. Depots must have a permit from the Health Department. 
 •  No food may be stored at a depot.
 •  Cleaning mobile food vending units and removing waste are not 
allowed at a depot. You must bring your unit to the commissary 
in order to clean and wash it as well as throw away garbage  
and waste. 
NOTE: To get a free copy of a commissary’s or depot’s most recent 
inspection report, contact the Mobile Food Vending Inspection program  
at 646-632-6203 or email mfvinspections@health.nyc.gov. 
 DEPOT
18   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
ALTERNATIVE SERVICE AND STORAGE FACILITY:
Owners of units that sell only prepackaged food or whole fruits and 
vegetables (e.g., Green Carts) may request an alternative service and 
storage facility, such as a private garage. Permit holders of these 
types of units must apply to the Health Department to approve an  
alternative facility. 
The facility must be pest-free. The facility may not be used to 
prepare or store food.
Each alternative service and storage 
facility may store up to four pushcarts 
or one vehicle (truck).
The facility must provide potable water 
(water that is safe to drink).
STORAGE
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    19
•  Before leaving the commissary, make sure you have proof of where 
you bought your food and have your commissary contract letter  
readily available.
•  All items must be securely attached and stored on your cart or truck 
while traveling to your location. 
•  Propane tanks must be disconnected and safely stored in your cart or 
truck while traveling. Propane tanks are only connected by a person 
with an FDNY Certificate of Fitness when you arrive at your location.
•  You may not cook, heat water or conduct any other food preparation 
while traveling to your location.
• Ice cream trucks may only play music while moving.
VII. Daily Practice: Traveling to Y our 
Vending Location
CONTRACT
LETTER
20   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
•  Set up your pushcart on a sidewalk that is at least 12 feet wide. 
•  Set up your unit within 6-12 inches of the curb.
•  Set up your unit at least 10 feet from any crosswalk, driveway or 
subway entrance/exit. 
•  Your unit must be at least 20 feet from a building’s entrance or exit. 
•  Your unit may not be in a bus stop or hospital “No Standing” zone.
VIII. Daily Practice: Choosing and  
Setting Up Y our Vending Operation 
WHERE TO SET UP YOUR MOBILE FOOD  
VENDING UNIT:
Pushcarts:
10FT
12FT
20FT
6 - 12 IN
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    21
•  You may not sell on a street that is restricted or otherwise prohibited  
from vending. You can find the list of restricted streets at  
nyc.gov/health/mobilefoodvending.
Vehicles (Including Trucks):
•  You must obey the same placement regulations as mobile food  
vending carts.
•  Your vehicle must have a current Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) 
registration, an inspection sticker and insurance.
• You must obey all traffic regulations. 
•  You may not vend at parking meters.
•  You may not idle engines.
22   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
HOW TO SET UP YOUR MOBILE FOOD 
VENDING UNIT:
•  Do not block the sidewalk with your equipment or supplies when 
setting up your unit.
•  Store all non-food items inside, under or above your unit. 
•  Do not store anything next to your unit on the sidewalk except a 
garbage container. 
•  Do not add any parts to your unit that were not approved during your 
pre-permit inspection, especially if the part would make your cart  
larger than 5 feet wide and 10 feet long.
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    23
•  Protect food from contamination, including dust and dirt, flying  
insects, birds, other animals and people.
•  Have a person with an FDNY Certificate of Fitness connect your 
propane tank(s)  to your cooking equipment when you arrive at your  
vending location.
IMPORTANT: Do not leave your cart or truck on 
the street overnight or leave it unattended at any 
time while food is in the unit. 
24   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
• You must be fully clothed at all times. 
•  You must wear a hair cover that hides your hair completely, for  
example: a hat, scarf or hairnet. 
•  You must wash your hands before preparing or serving any food. 
•  You must wash your hands after: using the bathroom; sneezing; 
smoking; touching your hair, body or clothing; handling money; 
cleaning your cart or truck, handling garbage and preparing raw 
 
food and meat. 
• You may not smoke while vending.
IX. How to Safely Prepare, Hold and  
Serve Food
PERSONAL HYGIENE IS VERY IMPORTANT .  
FOLLOW THESE GUIDELINES:
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    25
TO AVOID SPREADING ILLNESS TO YOUR 
CUSTOMERS, FOLLOW THESE RULES: 
Make sure to cook foods that require time and 
temperature controls for safety (TCS) to the 
proper temperatures. These foods include hot dogs, 
sausages, gyros, lamb, fried chicken, empanadas, 
rice and vegetables.*
Poultry 165 degrees F or higher
Pork 150 degrees F or higher
Ground meat 158 degrees F or higher
Eggs/egg products 145 degrees F or higher
All other foods 140 degrees F or higher
Store cold food, such as raw meat, dairy, salads and 
other ready-to-eat foods, at or below 41 degrees F.
Never touch ready-to-eat foods with bare hands. 
Always use a barrier to serve ready-to-eat food, 
such as tongs, gloves or deli paper.
If your food is already prepared and packaged in 
a container, bag or wrapper, you do not need to 
use a serving barrier.
*  Some foods are known as "time and temperature controlled for safety" foods–TCS for 
short. These are foods that can grow bacteria and make people sick if they are not kept at 
the right temperature.
26   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
2hr
•  Don’t cross-contaminate; use separate utensils for raw and cooked 
food. Raw animal foods, such as meat, poultry, seafood, eggs and 
unpasteurized milk products, can contain germs that cause disease. 
These germs can pass from food, hands, utensils and food preparation 
surfaces to other foods. 
•  Use separate utensils for raw and cooked food.
•  Use a thermometer to check your hot and cold food temperatures at 
least every two hours. 
•   Condiments must be served in individual packets or directly from  
a container. 
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    27
Ice and ice-storage units 
 •  All ice must come from approved sources. 
 •  All ice used for drinking or eating must clearly state the ice 
manufacturer on the packaging. 
 •  Ice used for drinking or eating must be stored in a clean, easily 
cleanable closed container made of approved food-grade materials. 
 •  All ice must be dispensed using an ice scoop that has a handle long 
enough to prevent bare-handed contact. 
 •  Scoops may be stored in the ice with the handle up and out of  
the ice. 
 •  Scoops may also be stored on a clean surface protected from 
contaminants, including dust and dirt, flying insects, birds, other 
animals and people. 
 •   Ice used to keep food and drinks cold may not be used in drinks 
or food. Coolant ice is not safe for eating or drinking. 
 •  Packaged foods, including drinks, may be stored in ice. Melting 
ice must be drained to reduce the potential for contamination. 
ICE  
USED FOR  
DRINKING
ICE  
USED FOR  
STORING 
DRINKS
28   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
Other guidelines for operating your mobile food 
vending unit: 
•  Keep the area right around your cart or truck clean and litter free. If 
any spills or messes occur near your unit, clean them immediately! 
Garbage and liquid waste should not be thrown away on public streets 
or sidewalks or in a public trash can. 
•  Have a person with an FDNY Certificate of Fitness change your propane 
tank(s) as needed. 
•  When you need more fresh water or supplies go back to the commissary. 
At the commissary you can resupply fresh water, resupply food items, 
wash utensils, empty wastewater and dispose of garbage. 
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    29
If you need to leave your unit to use the bathroom or get 
supplies from a local store, please do one of the following: 
 •  Have another licensed vendor operate your unit until you return.
•   Have an unlicensed person remain with your unit but make sure to
   Shut down your cooking equipment.  
  Properly and securely store all food. 
   Close and lock your unit to so no one tampers with it. 
  Return within 30 minutes.
BE BACK IN
30 MINS!
SURE!
30   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
X. Shutting Down Y our Vending 
Operation for the Day
WHEN YOU CLOSE YOUR UNIT FOR THE DAY:
•  Store cooking grease in leak-proof containers and throw the grease 
away at the commissary.
•  Make sure all food being returned to the commissary is stored properly 
and protected to avoid contamination. For example:
    All cooked food must be properly cooled or discarded. 
     All uncooked, time and temperature controlled food must be 
kept at or below 41 degrees F. 
     All cold food must be stored at or below 41 degrees F.
•  Have a person with an FDNY Certificate of Fitness disconnect your 
propane tank(s) from your cooking equipment.
•  Store yo ur propane tank(s) securely in or on your unit  
during transportation .
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    31
RETURN YOUR UNIT TO THE COMMISSARY  
AND REMEMBER: .
Do not leave any food on your unit. Return all 
foods to dry or refrigerated storage.
Do not leave any propane tanks on your unit. 
Return all propane tanks to the commissary’s 
propane storage area. 
Clean all utensils and cookware using the 
commissary’s dishwashing facilities.
Clean the inside and outside of your unit using 
the commissary’s facilities.
Store all non-food supplies (including utensils 
and cookware) securely to avoid contamination. 
Put garbage and liquid waste in the 
commissary’s waste-disposal facilities.
32   WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW 
Keep Clean and Wash Hands
   Wear clean clothes and change aprons or other outer garments when they get dirty 
or contaminated with raw meat. 
   Wear a hat or other head covering that keeps your hair off your face and out of the way.
   If you prepare and cook raw or other potentially hazardous foods, make sure the 
hand wash sink is working and that soap and paper towels or napkins are nearby. 
Hold Food at the Proper Temperatures
   Keep cold food below 41 degrees F and keep hot food above 140 degrees F.
   Review Health Department rules for temperature-holding requirements. 
   Be sure equipment used to hold hot and cold food is working properly.
   Use thermometers to monitor the temperature of foods in hot or cold storage often.
Protect Food from Contamination
  Keep food covered until served.
   Keep food separated by temperature and type. Avoid cross-contamination by storing 
raw potentially hazardous foods (e.g., raw poultry) separately from ready-to-eat 
items (e.g., salad mix).
Maintain All Non-Food Surfaces
  Review Health Department rules on acceptable non-food materials; surfaces 
should be smooth, hard, non-absorbent and easily cleanable.
  Keep all surfaces clean and in good condition (i.e., no holes, cracks or openings).
Mobile Food Vending:  
Keep Y our Customers Safe and 
A void Common Violations
WHAT MOBILE FOOD VENDORS SHOULD KNOW    33
Wear Your Mobile Food Vending License
   Make sure everyone on the unit has a valid Mobile Food Vending License.
   Wear the license so your customers can see it at all times while vending.
Display the Mobile Food Vending Permit and Decal
   Check that the unit has a current valid permit readily available  
for inspection.
   Make sure the unit has a current valid decal attached to the outside of the unit 
where customers can see it.
Place the Vending Unit Only Where Allowed
   Review placement requirements.
   Measure the distance from the outer edge of the vending unit to the nearest 
entrance of any nearby buildings, stores, theaters, sports arenas or other public 
place. The distance must be at least 20 feet.
   Measure the distance from the outer edge of the vending unit to the closest 
crosswalk, subway entrance or bus stop. The distance must be at least 10 feet.
   Be sure the vending unit is on the street and right next to the edge of the 
sidewalk—no more than 6 inches away at most. 
   Do not place the vending unit on any sidewalk that is less than 12 feet wide.
   Do not place the vending unit on any street that is restricted to vending 
by law.
OTHER QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS?
Call the Health Department at 
212-676-1600
10.17
FOR MORE INFORMATION:
Call 311 or 212- 676-1600